Absence from an Exam 
If a student fails to write any CAT, the student will lose the percentage weightage given to the 
CAT exam. No Re-CAT will be conducted again to compensate the loss. This condition is also 
applicable to students who had been admitted in the previous batches, but have registered for 
an equivalent CAL course. However, due to unavoidable circumstances, if a student fails to write 
the CAT, then a supplementary CAT is scheduled separately for the benefit of such a students, 
subject to approval by the School Dean. Students who have been conferred with fellowships by 
Indian Academies (Science and Engineering) for undertaking research activity in prestigious 
Institutes / Universities are also eligible to take up the supplementary CAT. However, these 
students are required to satisfy the condition that their CGPA is not less than 8.0 and they take 
prior permission from the School Dean before availing the internship. Students who miss the 
CATs due to placement activities are also eligible to appear for the supplementary CATs, 
provided they meet the minimum attendance requirement. Supplementary CAT is also permitted 
for student, who fails to appear for the regular CAT, due to their hospitalization. 
Under extraordinary conditions, if a student is not able to appear for the Final Assessment Test 
(FAT) of a theory/ Student Project (final viva voce exam), due to hospitalization (in-patient 
treatment) for more than a week duration or death of a family member, then the concerned 
student may apply to the Vice Chancellor by submitting an application through the School Dean, 
Head of the Department/Program Chair and the Proctor, supported by adequate evidence or 
proper medical certificate duly authenticated by the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of the 
University, as the case may be, within 14 calendar days, after the completion of the FAT. 
Such applications will be scrutinized by a special committee constituted by the Vice Chancellor 
and if necessary, the student may be asked to appear before the Committee for presenting the 
23
case. Any student who fails to apply for such supplementary-FAT in the prescribed manner will 
be deemed to have failed in the course(s) and has to repeat the course(s) by registering again in 
subsequent semesters. Such supplementary examinations will be conducted along with other 
FATs or separately, as decided and scheduled by the University. Such cases will be treated as 
‘first’ attempt. If a student fails to write the scheduled supplementary FAT for any reason (even 
those mentioned above), he/ she need to register the course again and clear it. The student will 
be awarded ‘N’ grade in the course he/she failed to write. Student permitted for supplementary 
FAT will be awarded grade as per the class relative ‘grading band’, without re-calculating the 
class average and standard deviation again.