 Absolute and Relative Grading 
The letter grade awarded to a student for his/her performance in a course can be based on
either the Absolute Grading or the Relative Grading concept. The ‘Relative Grading’ concept
indicates the academic standing of a student in his/her class. All the theory component of
the courses, where their class strength is more than 10, shall follow class-wise relative
grading concept. In Relative Grading, the following two extreme situations, which generally 
are not congenial for the students’ growth are annulled.
1. Majority of students scoring very high marks because, either the question paper is easy 
or the evaluator is very lenient.
2. Majority of students scoring very low marks because of either the question
paper is tough or the evaluator is very strict.
In this system, grades are awarded to students according to their performance relative to their
peers in the same class (class is defined as a unique combination of course-slot-faculty).
Normally the class average mark is taken as midpoint of ‘B’ grade, and relative to this and
depending on the sigma (σ, standard deviation) value, the other grades are finalized. A
combination of absolute and relative grading systems is adopted in converting marks to grades
as given in the Annexure VII and VIII.
20
However, if the mark range for F grade of that class is <50 (based on mean- 2*sigma), then 
that value is used to check the prerequisite of the Grand total marks instead of 50. If a course 
does not have an “S” grade (or) if the “S” grade boundary exceeds 100 as per the above 
formula, a Committee will decide the number of “S” grades and “S” grade cut-off marks. Before 
calculating the class average and standard deviation, the grand total marks obtained by the 
student is “rounded-up” to the next integer (any fraction will move to the next integer) and the 
same is displayed also. Marks of other evaluation components are not altered and stored up to 
two decimal accuracy. This and total is used to compare the grade band minimum and 
maximum limits that are calculated and displayed as “rounded-off” integer (fraction of 0.5 and 
above will be converted to the next integer and less than 0.5 will be truncated). 
All the conditions stipulated in Section 9.4 for the for the Pass/Fail are applicable to relative 
grading, also too. While applying relative grading, if the minimum marks corresponding to ‘E’ 
grade happens to be less than 50, then that mark will be set as the minimum mark required to 
pass the course. Similarly, when the class average is high, marks above 50 may result in ‘F’ 
grade. Under such circumstances, the student will be awarded ‘E’ grade and declared pass. If 
the minimum of the grade band is less than 100%, but the maximum has exceeded 100%, then 
the maximum of the grade band shall be reset to 100%. But, if the minimum of the grade band 
exceeds 100%, it indicates that the specific letter grade or better letter grade(S) cannot be 
issued to that class.
If the class strength is less than or equal to 10 in a theory or lab embedded theory course, 
absolute grading shall be adopted, instead of the class-wise relative grading. All the
laboratory and the project component of the courses shall adopt absolute grading method
only, irrespective of the class strength.