Attendance
A student is expected to maintain 100% attendance in all courses. Considering the fact that a
student may need leave due to ill-health or to attend some family emergency, a student is
permitted to maintain a minimum of 75% attendance (i.e. absent for 25% of instructional
hours) in each course, without producing any proof for the absence. This 25% absence
includes medical, personnel, casual, official leave of absence for organizing events/
seminars/ workshops/ technical/ cultural festivals/competitions/ participation in cocurricular/ extra-curricular events/ NSS & NCC camps, or any other (valid or otherwise) reason.
Computerized attendance monitoring system is adopted for posting the attendance by the
faculty. Since no one is exempted from the minimum attendance conditions stipulated as
below, students who fail to maintain the minimum attendance criteria will not be permitted to
write the next evaluation component of the course (CAT/FAT Exam component fixed by the
course faculty in case of courses under CAL) and they will be considered as ‘debarred from
writing the exam’. The attendance software shall indicate the student status of that exam
component as ‘Debarred’ if the student drops below the minimum attendance requirement. 
Such display will be enabled one day prior to the examination. Students who are ‘debarred’ from 
writing the FAT component of a course shall be awarded an “N” grade and they have to reregister the course again and clear with a performance grade. The attendance percentage will
be calculated from the ‘date of registration’ into a course or as stipulated in the 
attendance portal to one day before the start of the exam component. The minimum
attendance requirement for the continuous assessment tests and the final assessment test is 
75%.
To encourage students to attend seminars, conferences, workshops, training programs, short
duration courses offered by specialized institutions, etc. who otherwise shy off availing such
benefits due to losing of attendance in various courses, students with CGPA of 9.00 and
above (CGPA ≥ 9.00) and with no current backlog courses are exempted from the
minimum attendance requirements. It is expected that these students will continue to
attend all the classes without absence and will not take this as an advantage to skip
classes. If such students’ CGPA falls below 9.00, at any point of time, they will be
subjected to the minimum attendance requirements again. For this purpose, the ninepointers list will be dynamically generated and applied at the time of preparation of
debarred list of each exam component (CAT/FAT) of a course. Hence the exemption status
may change before any exam component depending on the declaration of results. However,
no retrospective effect will be given to earlier decisions of inclusion/ exclusion from 
debarred list based on the CGPA the students had at that time. In view of the short duration of 
the summer/ intersession semesters, such exemptions are not applicable to any student and 
therefore all students are required to maintain the minimum 75% attendance for attending the 
said examinations.
Students who are absent due to prolonged illness or any other valid reason from the classes
beyond the 25% absence shall be advised to request for ‘Break of Study’ on medical
grounds for a semester as indicated in Section 19. This may result in extension of minimum
time period of completion of the program.
The university has declared sectional holidays for Meelad-un-Nabi, Muharram, Bakrid, Telugu
New Year's Day and Good Friday. The students who are availing the sectional holidays which is
declared as instructional day have to submit their request to the HoD / Program Chair through
the Proctor for consideration of attendance