Audit 
A student willing to get an exposure of a specific course not listed in his/her programme
curriculum, and without undergoing the rigors of getting a ‘good’ grade, may be permitted to
register that course as an Audit course, subject to the following conditions.
1. Students of programmes with duration of four and above can register for a maximum of 
two courses, whereas students of other programmes can register for only one course 
under ‘audit’ category. Such courses should be indicated as ‘Audit’ during the time of
Registration itself. Late registration is not permitted for an Audit course.
2. A student is permitted to register for an audit course only if his/her CGPA is equal to
or more than 8.0 at the time of Registration.
3. The student should maintain the minimum attendance conditions specified in Section 8, 
even for the ‘audit’ course.
4. Only courses currently offered for credit to other students can be audited.
5. A course appearing as a UC/PC course in the curriculum of a student cannot be audited
(i.e. audit course cannot be converted to a credit course). However, if a student has
already met the PE credit requirements as stipulated in the curriculum, then, a PE
course listed in the curriculum and not taken by the student for credit, can be audited.
6. Students registering for an audit course, must undergo all the assessment procedures
applicable for a credited student of that course. Only if the student obtains any
performance grade, the course will be mentioned in the semester Grade Sheet and in
the Consolidated Grade Sheet by a ‘U’ grade, and not his/her performance grade in
the audited course.
7. Withdrawal of an audit course is permitted and the procedure indicated in Section 7.6
needs to be followed. If a student fails to clear an audit course, withdraws the
registration, fails to maintain the minimum attendance requirements, or fails to write
the FAT, etc., he/she will be awarded a ‘W’ grade, by treating all such conditions as
course withdrawal. Any ‘W’ grade course will be shown in the semester grade sheet
but not in the consolidated Grade sheet. Hence, as a regulation, the Audit course will
not be shown in the Consolidated Grade sheet, if he/she fails to complete the course.
8. Since an audit course has no grade points assigned, it will not be counted for the
purpose of GPA and CGPA calculations.
9. If a student does not write the FAT on valid medical/ non-medical reasons, no Re-FAT
request can be made for audit courses.
10. There will be no extra payment for the audit courses, limited to the number of audit
courses taken as specified above.
11. The list of eligible audit options is listed under Annexure – II.
12. Only one Audit course can be registered per semester and is available only in the 
regular semesters. However, students at their graduating year are permitted to
register for more than one audit course. The norms as related to the pre-requisites 
conditions are to be met in such cases