Class Based Learning 
Assessment for class-based learning consists of Continuous Assessment Marks (CAM) and
one Final Assessment Test (FAT) for each course offered under CBL. CAM shall have
various components like CAT-I and CAT-II exams, Assignments and Projects depending on the
credit distribution (LTPJC Components) as given in Annexure - V. Each CAT exam will be
conducted for 90 minutes, for a maximum of 50 marks. The marks, scored by students for 50,
are rescaled to 15%. CAT-II examination will be of ‘open book’ type and will be conducted for 90 
minutes, for a maximum of 50 marks. The marks will be rescaled to 15%. A Final Assessment
Test for 3 hours shall be conducted for a maximum of 100 marks. The exam type will be 
intimated by the University through circulars.
The total of CAT-I, CAT-II, and Digital Assignments accounts to 60% of the Continuous Assessment 
marks. The FAT is attributed the remaining 40% weightage and corresponds to the End 
semester Examination. The digital assignment marks of 30% in a theory component of the
course for continuous assessment will be decided by the concerned teacher who has the liability
to go for either assignment or any other mode of continuous assessment with corresponding
weightages suitable to the course. However, the assessment mode and weightage should be
decided before the commencement of courses in the semester as approved by the
HoD/Program Chair, and intimated to the students. All exams, other than the FAT, will be
conducted by the program School concerned or centralized arrangement. FAT will be
conducted centrally. Improvement of marks in any of the examinations is not permitted by a
repeat exam or by any other means. Weightage of marks for different components in a given 
credit structure is given in the Annexure - V. The conventional CAT-I and CAT-II can be replaced by 
weekly assessments, midterm test or any other assessment modes, in selected programs / 
batches, upon seeking approval from the Academic Council or from the special committee 
constituted by the Vice-Chancellor. Considering the short duration of the special terms, CAT can 
be replaced with a mid-term test with a weightage of 30% (combination of two CATs).
