Credit Transfer
Within the University, when a student move from one programme to another, or get readmitted into the same programme again, Credit Transfer is a convenient way of transferring
the courses and credits, the student had successfully completed/ earned. If the courses
completed have the same syllabi and credits, and if the course(s)/ its equivalent(s) appear
in the programme curriculum into which the student is now admitted, it is assumed that the
student has earned the credits by credit transfer. A recommendation to this effect shall be
forwarded by the School Dean to the Dean of Academics for effecting the credit transfer.
Only such courses and credits that are completed and performance grades awarded will be
transferred. Since the credit transfer takes place within the same University, the performance
grades will also be transferred to their current curriculum and hence, will be counted towards
their GPA/ CGPA. Hence, the need to mention ‘Credit Transfer’ exclusively in their ‘Consolidated 
Grade Sheet’ is not required. 
A similar procedure shall be adopted during the time of admission of candidates from other
Universities into various eligible programmes of the University, subject to the condition that
those Universities are recognized and approved for credit transfer by VIT. During that time,
only those courses that were completed and credits earned will be mapped to the courses
demanded by the programme curriculum, into which the admission is sought and hence
considered for credit transfer. If the other Universities follow a different system altogether,
then the programme School into which the student is seeking admission/ transfer may work
out an equivalence of credits that are to be transferred with valid supporting documentation.
The number of credits thus transferred will be considered for the minimum credit
requirements of the programme, but not considered for the GPA/ CGPA calculations. The
credits thus transferred will be indicated as total credits at the bottom of the Consolidated
Grade Sheet as ‘Total Credits Transferred from (Name of the Institute, place and Country)’
and no breakup of courses will be listed. This procedure shall be applied to dual/ double/
twinning programmes, wherein the credits are shared between two Institutions.