Grading System 
At the end of a semester, a student gets a ‘Letter Grade’ in every registered course, 
provided his/her aggregate performance in any specific course in the whole 
semester is apt. The letter grade and its ‘Grade Point’ indicate the results of both
qualitative and quantitative assessment of the student’s performance in a course.
A student is declared to have passed in a theory only Course, theory with lab embedded
Course, theory with lab and project, theory with project, lab only or project only courses, only if 
he/she meets the following conditions, as relevant to the type of individual courses:
a) Should have secured a minimum of 40% marks in the theory FAT alone.
b) Should have secured a minimum of 50% marks, out of total marks awarded to the
laboratory and/or project components.
c) Should have secured a minimum of 50% marks, out of the grand total marks awarded to
the course (all component marks taken in their credit ratio for 100 marks), for all other 
course types except the ‘theory only course’.
Students who fail to meet the above pass criteria are awarded an ‘F’ grade. Students who have
an ‘F’ grade need to re-register the course again to clear it. There will be no pass/fail criteria
in continuous assessments. The letter grades and their corresponding grade points are given in 
the Annexure – VI. The remarks column in the table describes the circumstance under which
the specific grade is offered. The student registration details in FFCS will reflect the status of 
currently registered and yet to be completed course components as ‘Y’. 
A student is declared to have passed/ cleared a course, if he/she has earned any one of the
following grades: ‘S, A, B, C, D, E or P, called the ‘Performance Grades’. Overall grade in a course 
is based on the credit ratio of course components (L+T:P:J).
19
The letter grade ‘F’ will be awarded, under the following circumstances.
I. Students who fail to clear a course due to their poor performance;
II. Student clears all the components individually, but if the grand total of 
that course does not meet the passing range, then “F” grade is 
awarded. 
To clear an ‘F’ grade, students should re-register for the entire course in the subsequent
semester(s).
The letter grade ‘N’ has been sub- categorized as follows:
i. N1 : Student fails to clear one or more components of a course
ii. N2 : Student who has been debarred due to lack of attendance
iii. N3 : Student who remains absent in the Final Assessment Test
iv. N4 : Student debarred in Final Assessment Test due to indiscipline / malpractice
Students who fail to write the FAT due to valid medical reasons, will be initially awarded an
‘N’ grade. They are eligible to apply for supplementary FAT as indicated in Section 9.10. If
they fail to appear for the supplementary FAT as per the schedule for any reason –
including medical or non-medical, the grade ‘N’ already awarded will be retained as it is
and no second chance will be provided to them. The ‘N’ grade will be converted into a
performance grade after the student takes up the supplementary FAT. However, the student
is bound to appear for the auxiliary FAT within one academic year or whenever it is 
scheduled from the date of approval, whichever is earliest. If a student fails to write the FAT
due to reasons other than the one indicated above, shall be awarded ‘N’ grade by treating the
course as incomplete. Letter grade ‘N’ carries ‘Zero’ grade point and to qualify the course,
the student has to register the course again in a subsequent semester and complete the
same with a ‘performance’ grade. Grade ‘W’ is discussed in Section 7.6 and grade ‘U’ is 
discussed in Section 10 separately.