‘Honours’ credential 
Additional credits acquired in his/her own major programme discipline entitles a student to
get ‘Honours’ credential. Students should register for additional programme elective courses 
listed in their curriculum to earn the 'Honours' credential. Schools should ensure that the
student will not be indirectly forced to take courses other than the ones prescribed under
that ‘honours’ list as ‘pre-requisite’ courses. Students who wish to acquire ‘Honours’
credential need to carry out ‘honours’ course registration along with their regular semester
course registration. Students with a minimum of 8.0 CGPA qualify for registering course under 
‘Honours’ credential. He/she accumulates credits by registering for the required courses,
and if the requirements for ‘Honours’ are met within the prescribed minimum time limit of
the programme, the ‘Honours’ will be awarded along with the degree. Also, the student should
have a minimum average CGPA of 7.50 in the ‘Honours’ courses registered to become eligible
for the ‘Honours’ award. If necessary, the student may use options like registering for the
failed ‘Honours’ course again in a subsequent semester (Section 7.4) or grade improvement
(Section 15) to improve grades obtained in a ‘Honours’ course to raise the CGPA to the
required level.
A student has to complete a minimum of 15 credits (for students admitted till AY 2018-2019) or 
20 credits (if admitted from AY 2019-2020), of which at least one course should have a lab
component, to become eligible for ‘Honours’. No relaxation in the maximum number of credits
a student can register during a semester, as indicated in Section 7.3, will be given to students
opting for ‘Honours’. In case a student withdraws from the ‘Honours’ registration in the
middle of the programme, the ‘Honours’ courses successfully completed will be converted to
‘UE/ Audit’ courses and indicated accordingly in subsequent Grade Sheets and Consolidated
Grade Sheet. Students have to pay extra for all the courses registered for ‘Honours’. It 
must be noted that Honours award will be mentioned in the Degree Certificate as
“Bachelor of Technology in (specialization) with Honours”. This fact will also be reflected in
the Consolidated Grade Sheet under a separate heading ‘Honours’ with similar details shown
for other credited courses and the CGPA for ‘Honours’ will be indicated at the end of list of
courses under ‘Honours’. The grades obtained in the courses credited towards the ‘Honours’
award are not counted and shall have no influence on the GPA/ CGPA of the ‘programme’ 
student has registered