‘Minor’ credential
Additional credits acquired in focused discipline other than his/her major programme
discipline entitles a student to get a ‘Minor’ credential. All Schools presenting various
programmes will offer ‘Minors’ in their varied disciplines, and will prescribe what set of
courses and/or projects is necessary for earning a minor in that particular discipline. Such
courses can be across the programmes also. Schools should ensure that the student will not
be indirectly forced to take courses other than the ones prescribed under that ‘minor’ list as
‘pre-requisite’ courses. Students who wish to acquire a ‘Minor’ can register for ‘minor’
courses along with their regular semester course registration. If any of the courses listed
under the ‘minor’ option is a course listed under his/her curriculum as UC/PC, then the
student cannot opt for that ‘minor’, since all minor courses need to be earned as additional
courses to his/her programme curriculum.
Students with a minimum of 8.0 CGPA qualify for registering course under ‘Minor’ credential.
He/she accumulates credits by registering for the required courses, and if the course
requirements for a particular ‘Minor’ are met within the prescribed minimum time limit of the 
programme, the minor will be awarded along with the degree and it will be mentioned in the 
Degree Certificate as “Bachelor of Technology in (specialization) with Minor in 
(specialization).”Also, the student should have a minimum average CGPA of 7.50 in the ‘Minor’ 
courses registered to become eligible for the Minor credential. This fact will also be reflected in 
the Consolidated Grade Sheet under a separate heading ‘Minor in (specialization)’ with similar 
details shown for registration in the middle of the programme. In case a student withdraws from 
the ‘Minor’, the ‘Minor’ courses successfully completed, will be converted to ‘UE/ Audit’ courses 
and indicated accordingly in subsequent Grade Sheets and Consolidated Grade Sheet. 
Students have to pay extra for all the courses registered for ‘Minor’. If necessary, the student 
may use options like registering the failed ‘Minor’ course again in a subsequent semester 
(Section 7.4) or grade improvement (Section 15) to improve grades obtained in a ‘Minor’ course 
to raise the CGPA to the required level. A student till their admission for the AY 2018-2020 has 
to earn a minimum of 15 credits (4 or 5 courses), whereas the minimum credits will be 20 for 
students registered from AY 2019-20. At least one of the registered courses should have a lab 
or project component, to ensure eligibility for the ‘Minor’. No relaxation will be given in the 
maximum number of credits, a student can register during a semester for registering courses 
under 'Minor' as indicated in Section 7.3. The grades obtained in the courses credited towards 
the ‘Minor’ award are not counted and shall have no influence on the GPA/ CGPA of the 
programme the student has registered