Perusal of answer sheets, Re-evaluation and Declaration of results
Post-CAT evaluation, the answer scripts will be handed over to students. Any discrepancy in
the appraisal will be corrected in person by the course faculty. However, after the
completion of the FAT, the marks entered by the faculty-member online will be made visible
to the students as per the schedule announced by the University. Subsequently, students
desirous of seeing their FAT answer scripts have to apply for the same within the stipulated
time -period and by paying the prescribed fee. If the student believes that the answer-script 
is needed to be re-evaluated because of any discrepancy in the evaluation, they have to
apply within the time period specified and by paying the prescribed fee. Upon re-evaluation, if
there is a change in marks to the extent of 5% deviation from the original marks, the better 
of the two will be considered for grading. However, if the change in the mark is more than 5%,
it will be evaluated again by a different examiner and the better of the three will be
considered for grading. Final letter grades will be awarded, based on the earlier calculated
‘grade band’ range of marks (no re-calculation of mean & SD again).
In case a student is not satisfied with the re-evaluation, he/she may apply to an ‘Examination
Appellate Committee’ with the requisite fees. The Committee consisting of the instructor,
who originally corrected the answer - script and another faculty in the same field of
specialization (to be drawn from the Course Committee) will re-evaluate the paper together.
The marks awarded by the ‘Appellate Committee’ will be final. Letter grade will be awarded
as per the class relative ‘grading band’, without re-calculating the class average and standard
deviation again. There is no provision for re-evaluation in case of Lab/ Practical exams, Soft 
Skills, Student Project viva voce exam or Seminar/ Design/ Mini-project courses or a
component of exam of type ‘project’ and also for comprehensive examination. The final grades
awarded to each subject will be announced by the University and the same will be made
available to students as well as the parents. In courses, where the class average is 90%
and above, the FAT answer papers will be re-evaluated by another faculty, handling the
same course/ taken that course in an earlier semester/ by a faculty drawn from the Course
Committee. Although never a regular phenomenon, the faculty may be asked to provide an
explanation for the high class average.