Semester Grade Sheet and Consolidated Grade Sheet
At the end of each semester, all students will be issued a Grade Sheet. This Grade Sheet will
be an accurate log of course activity of a student in each semester and hence, all courses
registered (including those courses that are awarded F, N, W, U, P, substituted, re-registered,
audited, grade improvement courses) will be listed semester wise. It would also be 
consisting of the grade points earned (performance and others grades), course credits,
GPA, CGPA, etc. This will reflect the performance of a student during the specific
semester.
The overall performance of a student in all semesters, since joining the programme will be
shown in a Consolidated Grade Sheet. A Consolidated Grade Sheet will be issued to a
student upon his/her successful completion of the programme or along with the Degree
Certificate. Consolidated Grade Sheet will indicate only the CGPA, and not semester wise GPA.
Since a Consolidated Grade Sheet consolidates semester Grade Sheet details, all details
recorded in the semester Grade Sheets will also be listed, with a time stamp of the exam
month and year. Additional courses like Audit, Minor/ Honours courses, URE (as explained
later in this document) awards, etc. earned by the student will also be shown separately/
along with other courses. An Interim Consolidated Grade Sheet can also be obtained at the
end of any semester, if needed. Students registering course(s) that is not a ‘required course’
as per his/her programme curriculum (after considering the UE, PE, Audit, Minor, Honours
and Double Major requirements, if possible) are required to drop/ withdraw the course.
However, if the student continues with the course, the grade awarded will be considered for
the semester GPA calculation like any ‘required’ course. On completion of the programme,
a suitable grade will be given and the CGPA will be calculated accordingly, at the time of
issue of the Consolidated Grade Sheet. However, the student needs to pay the course
registration charges for the course(s) as per the prevailing charges at the end of the
programme. Programme wise rank list will be prepared based on CGPA and also the arrear 
history. In case of a tie in the CGPA, same rank will be awarded to all in tie. Subsequent
students will be ranked by skipping the number of students awarded the same rank. (e.g):
For instance, while deciding the 5th rank, if two students have the same CGPA, both will get
5th rank and the next rank will commence from 7