URE004
The objective of URE004 is to bring out the innovative capability of the student, independent
of his/ her specialization, and give credit to their ideas and quality and quantum of work
carried out at the University. It will be of “open project” concept with 3 credits weightage
and can be carried out any time within the programme period. Students who carry out
such innovative projects have been winning laurels by participating events held during the
technical events or competitions held at IIT/ IISc/ NIT/ reputed Universities/ Industries within 
the country and abroad. To get credit to for their work, such students may apply to the
‘URE004 Evaluation Committee’ (similar to that of URE001) under the Dean of programme
School which will evaluate the project outcomes and if found to have made significant
contribution, then, recommend URE004 award to the student(s). 
The URE004 shall carry 3 credits with a performance grade as recommended by the
URE004 Evaluation Committee. After earning the credits, the student(s) registers for URE004
in the next semester. URE004 shall be considered in lieu of a University Elective course and
the credits are counted towards minimum credit requirements. URE004 will be shown in the
Grade Sheet and Consolidated Grade Sheet, with a short title of the work carried out. Only
projects carried out at VIT will qualify under URE004. Mere winning of a prize/ award/
certificate in a competition held by any educational institution/ R&D organization/ industry/
association will not be justifying/ or be a qualifying factor for URE004 award. A
maximum of 10 students are permitted to form a single group and carry out a single project.
In case of group projects, the individual performance grades shall correspond to the 
contribution of that individual to the project, as measured by the URE004 Evaluation
Committee. A student can receive only one URE004 award during his/her entire programme
period. The credits earned in URE004 can be considered in lieu of a University elective.